---
title: '2. Change the application'
layout: default
nav_order: 2
parent: 'Exercise 03: Improve and deploy your application'
---

# Task 02 - Change the application

- To create a new GitHub Issue, select "Issues" from the GitHub options menu and then select the "New issue" button. Enter an appropriate title and comment and then choose "Submit new issue" to create it.
- To create a new branch in GitHub, select "<> Code" from the GitHub options menu. Then, choose the "main" drop-down menu below the GitHub repository title and select "View all branches" to navigate to the branch list. Select the green "New branch" button and then enter your new branch name and select "Create new branch" to complete the process.
- On the Dev Box, run `git fetch` from the Git bash shell to fetch the latest changes. Then, run `git checkout {new branch name}` to make that the working branch.
- The only necessary app modification is in `Application\src\RazorPagesTestSample\Data\Message.cs` and involves changing line 12.
- To commit the change to the repository, add the changes to the working space with a command like `git add .`. Then, run a command such as `git commit -m "Resolves #6"`, assuming that 6 is the relevant issue number. Run `git push` to push the changes from the remote branch to GitHub.
- To create a pull request in GitHub, select "Pull requests" from the GitHub options menu. Then, select the "New pull request" option. The base branch should be "main" and the compare branch should be the new branch they've created. Then, select the green "Create pull request" button. On the pull request form, learners may add a reviewer by selecting the gear icon in the "Reviewers" section and then selecting a user from the drop-down list or typing in a username. After filling in pull request details, select the "Create pull request" button to create the pull request and alert the reviewer. Note that the GitHub website may prompt learners to create a pull request on the main page or on the Pull requests page, and they may choose this option as a shortcut to save a couple of steps.
- To review a pull request, a team member should open the pull request, either directly through the link in the e-mail GitHub sends or by navigating to the appropriate repository and choosing the pull request from the "Pull requests" menu. The learner should navigate to the "Files changed" tab and review any changes, ensuring that line 12 `Message.cs` now supports 250 characters instead of 200. There may also be one or more unit test updates to review. If the review is successful, the reviewer may choose the green "Review changes" button on the right-hand side, choose the "Approve" radio button, and then select "Submit review" to complete the task.

{: .note }
> A separate team member must review the pull request, not the learner who owns the repository.

- Once the team member has completed the pull request, the learner may open the pull request and select the green button to merge changes and complete the pull request. The learner may also select the checkbox to delete the feature branch. Alternatively, the learner may return to the branches list from the "<> Code" menu option and delete the branch manually.
