---
title: '2. Run a load test from GitHub Actions'
layout: default
nav_order: 2
parent: 'Exercise 04: Implement load testing and secure practices'
---

# Task 02 - Run a load test from GitHub Actions

- A sample JMeter script is in [the solutions folder](../Solution/Exercise-04/Task-2/LoadTestScript.jmx). This script covers steps 1 and 2.
  - Before creating or running the script, create an environment variable called `webapp` on the Dev Box. Its value should be the URL for your site, in the format `{yourprefix}-dev.azurewebsites.net` with no `https://` or trailing slashes. The following command line operation provides an example of how to create the environment variable:

    `setx webapp {yourprefix}-dev.azurewebsites.net`

  - The JMeter test plan includes the following components. Create them in the following order:
    - Thread Group to perform testing (right-click on the Test Plan and select Add -> Threads to add the Thread Group). The thread group should include 30 threads and 30 loops.
      - HTTP Request Defaults (right-click on the Thread Group and choose Add -> Config Element). Set the protocol to https and the server name or IP to your deployed website. The included script sets the server name to a variable called `${site}`, which uses the environment variable on the PC called `webapp`.
      - Recording Controller (Add -> Logic Controller)
    - HTTP(S) Test Script recorder (Add -> Non-Test Elements)
      - On the test script recorder, the default port is 8888.
    - View Results in Table (Add -> Listener). This allows you to view test results in a table and get a quick idea of how the website is performing during a test.
    - View Results Tree (Add -> Listener). This allows you to view individual test results and diagnose potential issues such as 400 Bad Request.
  - The following steps allow you to perform a test recording.
    - Start the recorder by selecting the Start button on the HTTP(S) Test Script Recorder element. The first time you do this, JMeter will generate a temporary root certificate in `C:\apache-jmeter-5.6.2\bin\` (or wherever you installed JMeter). Stop the recording by selecting the Stop button.
    - Although you can use any browser for testing, the Firefox browser is recommended for this because you can set a manual proxy and do not need to create a Windows-wide proxy like you would for Chrome or Edge. You can set a proxy in Firefox by navigating to the options menu and then choosing Settings. Then, search for "proxy" in the settings search bar and select the Settings button for network settings. When running the test script, use a manual proxy configured to localhost on port 8888, and use it for HTTP as well as HTTPS. After setting the proxy, search for "certificate" in the settings search bar and then select the View Certificates button. From there, navigate to Authorities and choose the Import button. Inside `C:\apache-jmeter-5.6.2\bin\` (or wherever you installed JMeter), select the `ApacheJMeterTemporaryRootCA.crt` certificate and import it into Firefox.
    - After enabling the proxy and importing the certificate, you should be able to return to JMeter and restart the test recording.
    - During the recording, you should capture activities like viewing the page, adding a message, deleting a message, and analyzing messages.
  - After stopping a test recording, you will have a series of test actions. You will need to capture the request verification token from the first call in order to ensure that you have a proper CSRF token for all subsequent calls.
    - Right-click on the first recorded message in the Recording Controller element and select Add -> Post Processors -> CSS Selector Extractor.
    - In the CSS Selector Extractor, set the following attributes:
      - Name of created variable = `token`
      - CSS Selector expression = `input[name=__RequestVerificationToken]`
      - Attribute = `value`
    - For each subsequent call, replace the Value of the "__RequestVerificationToken" parameter with `${token}`. You will only see this parameter on POST requests, not GET requests.
- The following instructions cover steps 3-7.
  - Create Azure Load Testing resource
    - Search for the Azure Load Testing resource on the top search bar and select the resource.
    - On the top left hand corner select "Create"
    - Select the Resource Group that was created by the sample app or create your own.  The resources must be in the same location.
    - Enter a unique name for the resource.
    - Ensure the location matches the location that your application is deployed to.
    - Select "Review + create"
    - Review your configurations and then select "Create"
  - Create Load Test
    - Go into your new resource.  You may see a warning on the top depending on your current access describing the access levels required.  If so, add yourself as one of the roles such as "Load Testing Owner" or "Load Testing Contributor" as you will not be able to proceed otherwise.
    - Select "Create"
    - Fill out the name of the test and a description of the test.
    - Go to the "Test Plan" tab and select the JMeter script you have locally and then select "Upload"
    - Under the "Parameters" tab, enter "webapp" for the name of the environment variable, followed by the URL for your sample app in the "Value" section **without** `https://`.
    - Under the "Monitoring" tab, select "Add/Modify" and select the App Service for the sample app followed by "Apply" in order to monitor the app during testing.
    - Select "Review + create"
    - Review the settings and select "Create"
  - Run the load test
    - In your Azure Load Test service, select "Tests" from the left hand side
    - Select the test that you created from the list
    - At the top of the screen select "Run"
    - A summary page should appear.  Add that this run is the baseline in the description.  Select "Run"
  - Set Pass/Fail Criteria
    - Go back to your load test and select "Configure" followed by "Test"
    - Go to the "Test Criteria" Tab.
    - Enter in your test criteria such as failure rate under x %
- The following high-level notes cover steps 8-10. In addition, [a GitHub Actions workflow YAML file](../Solution/Exercise-04/Task-2/LoadTest.yml) and [an Azure Load Test configuration file](../Solution/Exercise-04/Task-2/LoadTestConfig.yaml) are available in the solutions folder.
  - The file `LoadTest.yml` should go into `.github/workflows`. The files `LoadTestConfig.yaml` and `LoadTestScript.jmx` should go into the root of the repository. The file `load_test_report.md` should go into a new folder called `.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE`. Make sure to update `load_test_report.md` to set the assignee to your username.
  - This is a sample action that will run a load test.  The default action will either create or run the existing load test. However, GitHub Actions will automatically lower-case the value of the "TestName" parameter inside `LoadTestConfig.yaml`. Because the UI allows upper or lowercase letters, this can lead to duplicate tests existing in the Azure Load Test workspace.
  - Learners can use the baseline from their first run in challenge 3 to determine pass/fail criteria.
