---
title: '3. Identifying bottlenecks, stress tests, and resilience testing'
layout: default
nav_order: 3
parent: 'Exercise 04: Implement load testing and secure practices'
---

# Task 03 - Identifying bottlenecks, stress tests, and resilience testing

- The following high-level notes cover step 1.
  - For a primer on identifying bottlenecks using Azure Load Testing, [this article](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/load-testing/tutorial-identify-bottlenecks-azure-portal) covers the process.
  - Because there is no database associated with this application, identifying areas of slowdown will require code analysis.
  - Learners should notice that there are two operations which consistently lag behind everything else in terms of performance: initial loading of messages and posting a new message. In both cases, the root cause is a thread sleep loop. After removing these "speed loops," learners should notice a drastic performance improvement when performing those operations.
- The following high-level notes cover steps 2-4. There is also [a sample JMeter script](../Solution/Exercise-04/Task-3/StressTestScript.jmx) in the solution directory.
- The following high-level notes cover steps 5-8.
  - Chaos Studio does not offer a GitHub Action at this time, so learners will not be able to integrate this into their CI/CD pipelines.
  - Azure Chaos studio only supports a limited number of services, such as VMs, AKS, App Services, Cosmos DB, and networking.  Because our sample app only contains App Services, we will use App Service faults.
  - Prior to creating a chaos experiment, learners will want to scale out the App Service Plan to multiple instances, such as 3.
  - Create Azure Chaos Studio/Experiment
    - Register Chaos Studio Provider
      - Go to your subscription
      - On the left-hand side, select "Resource provider"
      - In the list of providers, search for "Microsoft.Chaos"
      - Click on the provider and select "Register"
    - Go to Azure Chaos Studio
    - Navigate to the **Targets** menu on the left-hand side and then select the App Service you will test. From there, select "Enable Targets" then "Enable service-direct targets" to complete enablement.
    - On the left-hand side menu for Chaos Studio, select the "Experiments" option.
    - Select "+ Create" and then choose "New experiment" from the dropdown.
    - Fill in your subscription, resource group, location, and name for this experiment.  Keep track of the experiment name as a managed user will be created for you.
    - Go to the experiment designer on the next tab.  Change the name of the step or branch if you wish.
    - Select "Add Action" and then "Add Fault" to create a new fault.
    - Select "Stop App Service" as the Fault.  You can choose the duration but the minimum duration is 5 minutes and that should be enough. From the target resources tab, choose the App Service you wish to test and then select "Add" to complete the addition.
    - Save your experiment by selecting "Review + create" and then choosing the "Create" option.
  - Update App Service Permissions
    - In the appropriate App Service, select "Access control (IAM)" from the left-hand menu.
    - Select "Add" followed by "Add Role Assignment"
    - Select the Contributor role, then select the "Members" tab. Choose the "+ Select members" link.
    - Search the name of the experiment from the earlier step and then click "Select".
    - Review and assign the permissions which will grant the role to the experiment.
  - Run load test + experiment
    - Run the load test first, then while the load test is running kick off the chaos experiment.  You should notice that the application returns a 403 error and the web app is stopped.
