---
title: '2. Track your work'
layout: default
nav_order: 2
parent: 'Exercise 02: Start working in GitHub'
---

# Task 02 - Track your work

- Make sure students are aware of the difference between the new "Project (Beta)" and traditional Project boards.
- Learners may only assign tickets to other team members if those members have accepted invitations to be collaborators on the repository.
- The following steps will allow a learner to add one or more collaborators:
  - In your repository, select "Settings" from the options menu.
  - In the Access menu on the left-hand side, choose the "Collaborators" option. Any learners with two-factor authentication enabled for their account may be prompted for additional authentication.
  - Select the "Add people" option from the Manage access section.
  - A dialog box will appear. Enter the e-mail address or username of any team members you wish to add.
  - Team members will need to accept invitations before this process is complete.
- The following steps will allow a learner to create an automated Kanban board:
  - In your repository, select "Projects" from the options menu.
  - Select the drop-down arrow in the "Link a project" button and select "New Project" from the menu. Then select the "New project" button.
  - Select "Team backlog" in the project templates.
  - Select "Create" to generate the project board.
- The following steps will allow a learner to create and work with GitHub Issues:
  - In your project board, select the "Add Items" button.
  - Create the draft issues as specified in the task.
  - Convert draft issues to issues. Make sure you select the repository for each one.
  - New issues, if linked properly, should show up in the "New" column.  Once you set the issue to a status of Closed, it should move to the "Done" column in the project board. If you are viewing the issues from the Kanban project board, you will be able to drag issues across columns.
