---
title: '3. Deploy a Microsoft Dev Box'
layout: default
nav_order: 3
parent: 'Exercise 01: Set up development environment'
---

# Task 03 - Deploy a Microsoft Dev Box (10 minutes)

## Description

In this task you'll take everything you configured in the first two tasks and use it to deploy a new dev box. Once it's deployed, you'll verify that you can log in to the Dev Box and that the tools you configured in your custom image are included in the dev box.

## Success Criteria

Now that you have the custom image with all your software installed, developers will need to be able to use that image to create and run their own development box.

- Create a dev box definition with a custom image

{: .important }
> It can take anywhere from 20 minutes to an hour to validate the VM definition created from the custom image. If it still hasn't completed after 15 or 20 minutes. You can continue on with the lab using a different machine. Once the verification is successful you can come back to finish Task 3. It is ok to use your own computer for Day 1 and use the Dev Box on day 2.

- Create a dev box pool within your project
- Create and log in to your own dev box and use the tools you configured in the custom image

## Learning Resources

- [Quickstart: Configure Microsoft Dev Box](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/dev-box/quickstart-configure-dev-box-service?wt.mc_id=mdbservice_acomdoc01_webpage_cnl&tabs=AzureADJoin)
- [Create a dev box by using the developer portal](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/dev-box/quickstart-create-dev-box?wt.mc_id=mdbservice_acomdoc02_webpage_cnl)
- [Configure a managed identity for a dev center](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/deployment-environments/how-to-configure-managed-identity)

## Tips

- To access the Dev Portal for logging in as a user visit: [https://devportal.microsoft.com/](https://devportal.microsoft.com/).
- Ensure you assign the [appropriate RBAC roles](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/dev-box/how-to-dev-box-user) for the users who to access the dev portal to login to a virtual machine.
- The first time you need a virtual machine, you need to first create it. It can take a little bit to create the VM the first time.

{: .note }
> It's possible that Docker for Desktop causes issues following the creation of your Dev Box due to the custom image. To resolve, it may need to be uninstalled/reinstalled once your Dev Box is created.
