---
title: '3. Monitoring with Application Insights'
layout: default
nav_order: 3
parent: 'Exercise 05: Make things secure'
---

# Task 03 - Monitoring with Application Insights (20 minutes)

## Introduction

To wrap up the DevOps journey Munson's Pickles and Preserves would like to understand what is happening in the deployed environments. It is too late to find out about a problem by the time users are complaining about it. It is also imperative to know about not only the performance of the site, but also the impact positive or negative a feature has had on the users. Please take a moment to review the articles below to gain a better understanding of the importance of monitoring and Application Insights, one of the tools available in Azure to make it easy.

## Description

In this task we will look at some of the telemetry that has already been collected by our running instance from Application Insights, injected into the Azure resources created back in our earlier Infrastructure-as-code challenge.

1. Review the `main.bicep` file. Find where the Application Insights node was created and note how the Web App was configured to send its logs there.
2. Create a dashboard in the Azure Portal to provide a summary of the status of our site. ([hint](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/overview-dashboard#application-dashboard))
3. Implement an outside-in availability test for the homepage of your site ([hint](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/monitor-web-app-availability))

## Success Criteria

- You should understand the importance of monitoring and some of the basic features offered by Application Insights.

{: .note }
> We are just scratching the surface of what is offered in Azure Monitoring, if you are interested in learning more there is a full What the Hack focused on [Azure Monitoring](https://github.com/microsoft/WhatTheHack/tree/master/007-AzureMonitoring).

## Learning Resources

- [What is Monitoring?](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/learn/what-is-monitoring)
- [What is Application Insights?](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-insights-overview)
